Success teaches you nothing, but failure
sure teaches you a lot. You've worked
with some of the biggest egos in
Hollywood and some of the most ruthless
tycoons. I'm wondering if you can spend
a few minutes on the lessons you've
learned about ego and power. Barry
Diller is a legendary media mogul,
businessman, and investor. He is the
chairman and senior executive of IA and
is best known for co-founding the Fox
Broadcasting Company with Rupert Murdoch
and leading Paramount Pictures. Over his
career, he has reshaped television,
film, and online media. He remains one
of the most influential figures in
business and entertainment today.
>> We're certainly at the brink of the next
revolution. If you were sitting in 1995
or 2000 at the beginning of the things
you did not know, and there were plenty
of those, there was nothing that cracked
your mind and astounded you and said,
"Oh my god, this is beyond me. This is
magic." Google over the years was
consistently as it monopoly grew was
squeezing the people who kind of lived
on as a surf on its uh land. But when I
found an asset that couldn't be
disintermediated by search,
I thought, "Wow, that wasn't AI. That
was just the characteristics of the
internet environment." The only thing
that will save us is our brands and
whether our brands and the content we
make resonates enough directly for
people to recognize our brand and want
to be brand involved rather than
agnostic. I've I believe
until the last breath that
[Music]
at 83 you chose to reveal some of the
most private parts of your life and
you're a super private person. Why now?
>> I can't do the why now. It wasn't like I
chose this date or that date. it's that
I had thought uh that my life was a good
story and if I could tell it true then I
wanted to try and do it. So it took me
an endless amount of time basically
because I put it away for a year and
come back to it and put it away for 6
months and then come back to it. It was
only really in the last couple of years
that I was I wouldn't call it dedicated
but that I had more discipline. I never
was sure I would publish it. And then I
got to a point where I said, you know,
I've done it. I've kind of told it. I
got it down. So, let it go. My friends
told me, uh, publish it after you're
gone, after you die. And I thought,
well, I ain't going to have anything to
do with that, so I'd rather have agency
of my own.
>> How does it feel to release it out loud
into the world?
>> It feels exposing now. I it's now been
like I think 3 weeks or so, so I've
gotten a bit used to it. But in the
first days, I thought, "Oh my god, what
the hell have I done here?" I think the
first day or the second day I did a I
think it was a live interview on CBS
Sunday morning. And I know it wasn't
live. It was taped, but it was it went
out like right away. And and I thought
and I'm being asked all these very
personal questions and I thought, you
know, do I throw down this little
microphone and stalk out? What do I do?
And I thought, you know what? I've done
it. So just go answer the questions and
get on with it. And kind of once I did
that, I relaxed in it a bit. Now I'm
kind of used to the exposure. But yeah,
I I wrote a personal book. One of the
stories that really stood out for me was
as a child you gave up on your mother
while you were at sleepa away camp and
you were sitting waiting for her to pick
you up. That seemed to be such a
defining moment for you and it led to
this craving of independence and
non-reliance on other people. Can you
talk to me a little bit about that?
>> Yeah, I don't think it was a craving. It
was a necessity. I knew at that moment
and it was a a stark flash. are those
snapshots you have that you capture and
they're always with you for the rest of
your life and I have that snapshot of me
in that moment and I thought I'm the
only one to protect me so I have no
choice. That's that's what I felt. How
old were you? Can you recount this
story? I was eight and I went to camp
and I was not very happy there. I mean,
a lot of children go to camp and have
this, but mine was kind of acute, and my
mother promised she would come, and she
didn't. This was not horrendous child
neglect or anything of that sort. My
parents were perfectly nice. They just
were clueless about children. They
really, they'd never been parented.
Their parents had never been parented.
And so, they had no vocabulary for it.
And so, she wasn't really there to
protect me. And that scared me.
>> I can relate to that a lot. And then you
you sort of had to develop your own
independence from that moment on.
>> I had no choice. I don't know. I think
it's in biology. My biology is very
strong and my biology saved me. I had to
be independent and so I was. I don't
claim it as, you know, some something to
be prideful about. It just uh I'm I was
lucky. One of the ideas that stood out
in your book as well was fake it until
you make it and how that was crucial to
your success. You've had these moments
in your career where you sort of
believed in yourself almost despite the
any tangible evidence to indicate that
you could do something and one of the
first moments was at ABC and convincing
Mr. Golden to let you create original
programming for TV. I'd love for you to
explore this idea, especially
considering I I've also heard you in
interviews say that you never had any
confidence.
>> I never had a sense of self because I
didn't think I deserved a sense of self
and so I never could claim that. I never
thought of that and I and I didn't have
uh the kind of early buoyant confidence
that that I saw around me and that has
always attracted me. I'm always
attracted to people who are natively
confident. I don't know how the hell the
stars or the or their biology or their
environment put that together for them.
And I see people walking down the street
and I can see their confidence and I
like think, "Oh my god, I wish I had
ever had that." But then if I had had
that, I'd probably end up being a shoe
clerk at Macy's. So I think that that
lack of a sense of self. Oddly, it
enabled me in the earliest part of my
career to please others to such an
extent that it got me going. And once I
got going, I just kept going. And I
think that that in a sense lack of
confidence or lack of sense of self
wanted propelled me to count as much as
I could in the eyes of others.
>> You said that you were sort of an
unambitious keen. What changed? Was
there a defining moment where you sort
of like
>> I had no ambition. My family didn't
think much but they whatever they
thought uh somewhat unexpressed but
coming out from them uh as an
environment my family had resources and
so I think they thought well they'd be
supporting me. I never really have a
job. I didn't want to go to school. I
didn't want to go to college. I didn't
want to do much of anything. I was
hibernating for a good long time. But
I'd always had this interest in the
entertainment in the world of
entertainment. I grew up around it. Most
of my friends parents were in the
entertainment business in one form or
the other. And so I I was just pulled by
it. It was a a tractor beam that always
drove me and or intrigued me. And when I
finally thought, you know, I really I'm
19. I want to go to school, but I got to
do something. I mean I I was basically
staying up nights and sleeping most days
and I thought well you know I would like
to learn about the entertainment
business and I thought there these
talent agencies William Morris the
probably at that time the most famous
number one agency and they had a mail
room where they so to speak trained
people to be agents. I didn't want to be
an agent. I thought I'd never be an
agent. That was ridiculous. uh talk
about if you don't have a sense of self,
how can you represent others? How can
you ever have the confidence to go sell
somebody that you're going to take care
of their lives? But I thought I could go
and learn and I essentially went there
and at that time there were big file
rooms, paper file rooms and I read the
entire firearm and they had had the
history of the entertainment business
for 70 years. And so what incredible
luck for someone who wanted to learn
stuff and I did. I was insatiable about
learning and that
literally from one day to the next lit a
fire of ambition and purposefulness. I
love the idea of sort of dark hours and
sort of hours learning and preparing uh
that other people could do but didn't
do. And you sort of alluded to the fact
that nobody wanted that job downstairs
in the room. It was just you.
>> Yep. I was really lucky because all the
people who were in the mail room were
well, they just wanted to get to be
agents since I didn't want to be an
agent. I took the job no one else
wanted. They all wanted to go in and
that horrible word network around, meet
people, press people, do whatever. I
went to the dungeon and and had this job
that allowed me basically almost the
entire day to read. And that's what I
did for three years until I think they
were on the verge of throwing me out.
>> You said you never had a goal and that
that's sort of what allowed you to do
that. They all wanted to be agents. So
they were working towards that. Can you
go a little bit deeper on that?
>> Look, if you want to be a doctor, yes,
that's a goal and you've got to go do
step step step to get there. There are
roles like that. But if you have a
specific craft or something, you can
name that craft as a goal and train for
it or do whatever you have to do for it.
I've never had any goals. I had the goal
that I wanted to count and I had the
goal that I was fascinated by the
entertainment business. I don't like it
when people come in to the early stages
of a broad general entertainment career
and say I want to run a studio or things
like that. I think whatever your
interest is, you just get on the broad
path. Whatever door you got to bang to
get in there, you get on the broad path
and everything else takes care of
itself. You don't have to say I want to
be this or I want to be that. And I've
always mistrusted that. I was thinking
about this as I was reading that in your
book and the thing that came to me was
sort of people look at jobs as stepping
stones.
>> Um sort of uh you know this is temporary
until I get the job I want. I want to be
an agent's assistant until I'm the
agent. But then they're never fully
present in the job. They're never just
>> Yeah. I mean, listen, maybe it might
work for some. I guess my observation is
that doesn't really work. What works is
if you get lucky enough to get a
position that you don't have experience
for, that you haven't mastered, and then
you just go about doing it. The sparks
you set off naturally
impress others and lead. They they drag
you to the next step. You don't have to
do much of anything. And and I think
when you do too many things, you know,
you see people whose naked ambition is
so structured and so people who say,
well, I need to go out and network. And
I hear that and I think, oh, you fools.
I mean, what are you talking about? You
don't really need to do that. It's this
kind of pro-former thinking of the
things you should do, the steps you
should take. It really is far more
naturalistic than that.
>> Do you remember the first person who had
expectations of you?
>> Yes. At one point, one of the things of
progress in uh in that mail room
environment is you work on an agent's
desk as his assistant, secretary at that
time, an assistant. I was very lucky
that the person my second time I did it
was for someone who did take an interest
in me and was kind of the first person
where I could see you know I know what
I'm doing for him and I know how
effective I am for him by the way it's
not like he ever said it to me
particularly but I could feel it and
know it and that that he had confidence
in me gave me the imagery of confidence
in myself and that was probably the
first time.
>> So he believed in you more than you
believed in yourself.
>> Well, I had no belief in myself. So I
mean and I'm not exaggerating this just
for whatever for drama purposes, but I
didn't have any belief in myself. But I
don't even know if I now have much
belief in myself. I know how absurd that
probably is to say, but it's but I can
only reflect on my own dim uh innerings.
I think that there's no doubt that his
confidence in me spurred me on for sure.
I don't know that ever made me feel
confident, but it sure spurred me on. I
just wanted to please him more, and I
did. I was the best little assistant the
world had ever created. You've worked
with some of the biggest egos in
Hollywood and some of the most ruthless
tycoons. I'm wondering if you can spend
a few minutes on the lessons you've
learned about ego and power. I'm direct
and I'm sincere
and often quite blunt. That
in a way does make people maybe trust
you. I'm generally very trusting. I
don't start out untrusting. I start out
trusting and you have to do a lot to
break that trust. So I think that that
ability to initially trust and people
realize that I am trusting them and I I
don't say, "Oh, this is a very precious
thing. Please don't screw this up." Of
course, I've been in situations where
it's been misplaced to say the least.
You can't be in business as long as I
have to not have your trust broken a lot
of times. The great thing is I can't
really remember and I don't have any
vengeance and that's again just luck.
It's not not something I would take
pride in. The one great thing about the
entertainment business has been in many
ways demonstrations of various excessive
personality in order to get something
done or to be distinguishable from the
next person.
Excessiveness is not a bad quality. And
also, if you're trying to convince
people of things, you probably got to
have either forceful personality,
forceful something. Uh that's just
whether you got it or you don't got it.
And today there is less of it than there
was when I was kind of growing up in it
where there was this outsized
personalities that if you're interested
in entertainment businesses you've read
about for 100 years uh that kind of
created the business the motion picture
business in particular. Uh it's it's now
a completely different dynamic, but but
those outsized personalities were were
thrilling to be around.
>> Are you struggling to manage your
projects at work using lots of different
tools for communication, task
management, and scheduling? Doesn't have
to be this hard. Base Camp is the
refreshingly straightforward, reliable
project management platform. It's
designed for small and growing
businesses, so there's none of the
complexity you get with software
designed for enterprises. Complexity
kills momentum. Base Camp clears the
path so your team can actually move. Do
away with scattered emails, endless
meetings, and missed deadlines. With
Base Camp, everything lives in one
place. To-do lists, message boards, chat
conversations, scheduling, and
documents. When information is
scattered, attention is too. Base Camp
brings both back together. Basecam's
intuitive design ensures that everyone
knows what's happening, who's
responsible, and what's coming next. My
head of operations swears by this
platform, and is the first person to
suggest it to anyone. If you need
another decorated referral, you should
call her. Whether you're a small team or
growing business, Base Camp scales with
you. Stop struggling, start making
progress, get somewhere with Basecamp.
Sign up for free at basecamp.com.
If you're still overpaying for wireless,
it's time to say yes to saying no. At
Mint Mobile, their favorite word is no.
No contracts, no monthly bills, no
overages, no hidden fees, and no BS. Why
don't we just accept overpriced wireless
plans? Month after month, we pay
jaw-dropping bills packed with hidden
fees and surprise overages. With Mint
Mobile plans start at just $15 a month.
Every plan includes high-speed data,
plus unlimited talk and text, all
delivered on the nation's largest 5G
network. And the best part, you don't
need a new phone. You can keep your
phone, your number, and all your
contacts. Switching is simple. If I had
needed this product, it's what I'd use.
Ready to say yes to saying no? Make the
switch at mitmo.com/nowledge
project. That's mintmobile.com/nowledge
project. Upfront payment of $45
required, equivalent to $15 a month.
Limited time new customer offer for the
first three months only. Speeds may slow
above 35 gigabytes on unlimited plan.
Taxes and fees extra. See mintmobile.com
for details. What's changed, do you
think? Well, I think the most dramatic
change is that the entertainment
business, let's let's say the motion
picture business was kind of encased in
its own world during its greatest years
of development. That was what these
companies did. They just made movies,
the great movies of the 30s, 40s, 50s,
60s,7s, 80s, and some in the '9s. And
there's still some good movies made. I'm
not saying that. But they were worlds
unto themselves. They were important
worlds cuz those movies were exported to
the world and became the export of
American culture to the world in movies.
Uh is probably the most extraordinary
movement dominating almost every country
in the world from the inception of the
motion picture business. And
as time went on they started doing
television and then they owned cable
networks and television networks etc.
And as they diversified movies notch
kind of somewhat down the ladder of
importance to these places. I think that
has an effect on the work itself. when
the seniormost person wakes up every
morning and worries about what's going
to happen with the movie they're making
and how how it's doing and all of that
care and feeding of it uh is far
different than it being number 87 in the
priorities of a large conglomerated
company. But the most profound
uh took place with streaming when
technology essentially
overtook the entire ecosystem of the
manufacturer of television and movies.
And so where these pure entertainment
companies, by the way, to some degree,
it's the furthest you could ever go to
say the difference between instinct and
ones and zeros or technology, which is,
as we know, quite fact-based and
numerical as to making any content is
instinctive. And those tech companies
essentially have now taken over the old
hedgeimony of uh quote Hollywood and now
Netflix and Apple and Amazon. I mean
just take one part of it if you want to
know the distinction where if you make
content the test of it is how many
people watch it, want it, go to a movie
theater, buy a ticket, do whatever. So,
you're in direct relationship to the
reaction to that thing that you made. If
you're Amazon and your main business is
subscriptions in Prime and you offer
content as kind of the thing in the
front of the store to get people to come
in, you're so far away. It's a different
business model. It's no longer based
upon, oh, I love that program. I love
that movie. I pay my money. I react to
it and the reaction is to the people who
made it. In this case, that's not the
business model. So, it's it's a
completely different environment than it
than it was. Now, not saying it can't
produce good things. Good things do get
produced and they will continue to be.
But the environment and the process is
different. And I think probably just
pound for pound. Well, I can say this
about it. I because I can't.
Yes, I can, but it's boring to save.
God, it was so much better eight years,
10 years, 20, 30 years ago in terms of
making stuff. It used to be for sure up
until recently. It was fun. You had fun
doing it. You You did it. You set up
your tent uh every couple of month or
month or two, you'd have a movie come
out and you all run towards figuring out
how to make it make it work, etc., etc.,
etc., and then your next excitement was
the next movie, and you lived in that
environment. And if the movie was good,
it lasted for a while. Things now go so
quickly. So, it is not a process today
where most people in it will say they're
having a good time. It's just so
fractionated now that that and it goes
so quickly that the great thrills of
making great programs is kind of gone.
Do you think it's too numbers driven? I
I mean you mentioned instinct as a
deciding factor. You used to decide on
instinct and you know other people would
bring numbers and I think one of your
quotes if I remember correctly was
numbers can tell you what has happened
in the past but they won't tell you
what's happened in the future but
everything is sort of analytical these
days. Netflix can see the exact moment
somebody stopped watching a show. So
when they're doing programming they
think about this and do you think it's
getting too formulaic and too data
driven or I I I don't think algorithms
can help here. None of us know what's
going to happen with the dread and
wonderful word AI, but I don't think
that that predictive research
is uh certainly in the arena of content
worthless. It cannot tell you anything
of real value in making a forward
decision that it's just not possible.
And yet everybody wants it to be
possible. Why? Because making
instinctive decisions is living with
great insecurity. There's no way to be
secure uh when you're making decisions
based on instinct. If I can get more
comfort by using this piece of data or
that piece of data to quote help me,
lovely. But it's a delusion.
>> It's almost like hiding, you know, the
safety and the numbers. I wasn't wrong.
The numbers were wrong. And you can
absolve yourself from responsibility in
a way. You can only do that for so long
because in the end uh
your work will get you good or bad and
there's nothing you could you can't
hide. That's the the thing that I will
always love about that world is you're
you're out there with whatever you've
made you've put together whatever role
you played in it and there's no hiding.
It's there for people to see and react
to and they will react.
>> Is there any particular failure that
stands out in your mind is like, "Oh, I
learned a lot from that one or it was
more impactful than the other ones."
>> If you are in the work of making
things, content,
you're going to have a good amount of
failure. It's not possible otherwise.
Now, I've I've been lucky. Well, I won't
say it's luck. It is. That isn't luck.
But I've had enough successes to balance
the failures and probably have have had
a better average, let's call it, of
that. But every failure in some way
ought to teach you something. And
success teaches you nothing. But failure
sure teaches you a lot. Are there
lessons that you've sort of been taught
multiple times from failure that you're
sort of like I keep running into that
but it's a different version of the same
problem.
>> The most important thing and the thing
that I have been reminded of
continuously is to keep scrubbing my
instincts clean as it were. Every time
I've made a decision out of cynicism, I
wouldn't say every time cuz sometimes
probably it has worked, but there's a
continual theme of cynical
decisionmaking that is poor. So being
naive, not being cynical,
being able to not let life experience,
so to speak, infect your basic instinct,
your ability to know a good idea from a
bad idea. That has been if anything the
thing that constantly
I've had to work at cuz as you gain
experience the natural tendency is to be
cynical or is is to be sophisticated
is to know things and it's something
that I've just learned to fight against
not always successfully.
>> How do you maintain that beginner's
mindset though? Like what are the things
that you do to approach things that way?
I wish I could give you a prescription
for this. I think probably the best way
I can say it is hold on to navvete. Do
not let the fact that you are of course
learning things and learning is of
course how could you say it's anything
but good. But living in an environment
where the corrosiveness of the day
grinds at you and makes you
worriedly cynical and all of that is
just something you got to fight against.
It that's ain't the best prescription
but that's all I got. You mentioned AI.
I want to come back to that in a second.
You've lived through major technological
disruptions from cable to TV to home
video to theaters becoming less
important and now we have the internet
and we have AI here. I'm wondering if
you can spend a few beats on AI and tell
me about how you see that not only
impacting the media and film business,
but also maybe double click on how you
think it's going to impact the website
and travel and all of these other things
that you're involved in
>> off the content business into the worlds
that I've been in for the last 25 or so
years, which is the worlds of internet
tech life with Expedia and dozens and
dozens of other websites, commerce
sites, etc. And I was very lucky. I got
to participate in that revolution which
started really around 95 when the
internet started to get used by ordinary
folk. And I was there in that period and
able to have this wonderful field kind
of open there just for the so to speak
grabbing and learning and that was
definitely a radical transformation.
We're certainly at the brink of the next
revolution. If you were sitting in 1995
or 2000, at the beginning of the things
you did not know, and there were plenty
of those, there was nothing that
cracked your mind and astounded you and
said, "Oh my god, this is beyond me.
This is magic." You could master it. It
wasn't hard to master. AI, will it
master us? Certainly in some cases it
probably will. The first time I used
chat GPT which was before it was
released and I thought well this is
faking magic and we're past that very
early stage. We're into the great
unknown here. It's going to have
profound effect. I don't know to what
exact extent. I know that for my
businesses,
we are racing and we've been doing this
for years. We go and anyone in business
has been using machine learning for a
decade or more. We're so far past that
now in so many different areas
that I can't by any stretch tell you the
extent of these changes except I know
they're profound.
>> How do you think it's going to impact
the travel business? Well, it's already
impacted the travel business. You are
able now, I mean, Expedia, which is a
large entity. I mean,
15 or 20 billion dollars of sales, you
it's a large enterprise and it is a tech
company. The things we are using AI to
do now, which did not exist, is profound
in every area of our service. It is more
than likely that within a year, but I
won't say that and I think it really is
probably truly within a year or so, you
really will be able to have a
conversation.
Agentic, this new word where an agent
does work for you will know so much
about you. It's not like they will have
known that your calendar says you have
to be in Las Vegas on Thursday the 20th
of September
and we'll just take care of everything
for you. Eventually that may happen but
the dialogue that you will have very
soon where the agent will know so much
and have such agency
with the ability to actually complete a
transaction
in all its respects is not far off.
That's that's an extraordinary change.
If you're a founder, you know naming
your startup takes forever. You finally
land on the perfect name only to find
out that Peter from Delaware got to
the.com first. So, you're stuck with two
bad options. Pay up and fund Peter's
retirement or tack on random words until
your domain looks like a Wi-Fi password.
But after all the time and money spent
on naming, you don't want that. And
thanks to tech domains, you don't have
to. Withte, you get the name you
actually want. It's clean, sharp, no
compromises. It instantly tells
investors and customers that you're
building technology. CES.te, the world's
biggest consumer tech event, uses.te
domain. So does 1x.te. An OpenAI backed
startup along with hundreds of thousands
of tech companies worldwide. So don't
waste another minute negotiating. Go to
GoDaddy, Namecheep, Cloudflare, or
wherever you buy your domains and get
your tech domain today. Introducing the
remarkable paper pro Move. It's a paper
tablet, a digital notebook that combines
the familiar feel of paper with the
digital powers of a tablet. Start by
taking notes with any of the dozens of
built-in templates. Then turn your
handwriting into type text and share it
by email or Slack. You can even continue
your work on the desktop or mobile apps.
Too much technology draws us in and
shuts out the world. This paper tablet
does it. It will never beep or buzz or
try to grab your attention so you can
devote your focus to what or who is
right in front of you. It can fit all
your notes and documents and lasts up to
two weeks on a single charge, but slips
easily inside your jacket pocket. And
most importantly, Remarkable's mission
is about helping you think better. That
means no apps, social media, or any
other distractions. You can try
Remarkable Paper Pro Move for 100 days
for free. If it's not what you were
looking for, you get your money back.
Visit remarkable.com to learn more and
get your paper tablet today.
Sounds like there's opportunities for
you from uh travel planning, knowing
your customer and and there's a lot
there, but there's also this sort of
disiniary
uh threat, I would imagine, where people
are purchasing their travel or planning
their travel in a completely different
way that doesn't involve something like
Expedia. How do you think about that?
>> They will unless we plan it better than
the next dope or the or a competitor of
ours. We have more information now than
anybody else has. So if we screw that
up, it's you know it's on us as they say
and we deserve to fail. But presumably
if we are satisfying the consumer
because of the data that we have which
is deep and vast
then I think they'll continue to engage
us. They'll continue to want us to do
that for them. I think from what I know
now it is not easy today for anyone else
to do that uh other than our competitors
can do that today but it's not easy for
any large language model or any modality
that that I know of so it's up to us to
do it it's a it's always listen one of
our we're the largest publisher that's
another business of ours called do-m
where we're with people magazine in
Better Homes and Gardens, Travel
Leisure, et 60 some odd magazines that
we publish digitally and also hugely
still in print. Obviously, that is a
business that's supported by
advertising.
And with the changes in search that
could disintermediate
those advertising opportunities.
The only thing that will save us is our
brands and whether our brands and what
we the content we make resonates enough
directly for people to recognize our
brand and want to be brand involved
rather than agnostic. I've I believe
until the last breath that brand value
is enduring, but it's got to be
differentiated. It's got to be clearly
leadly differentiated
and it's got to be of its own unique
value. If it is, I don't worry so much.
One way or the other, it'll get it it'll
get recognized. What opportunities do
you see in new business lines that maybe
you could acquire or data sets or
anything on the horizon where you're
like, "Oh, we can take advantage of AI
wave by doing something different versus
a legacy business."
>> Our company owns a large interest in MGM
resorts, which has nine resorts in Las
Vegas.
There's no way to disintermediate the
experience.
I mean, again, if we're in a simulation,
we can go into that route, but there's
no way as humans you can find an
experience that's going to divert you
from all the entertainment offerings
that a Las Vegas has to offer. It's
impervious to AI or to anything other
than whether or not you got something
that's pleasurable for a family and
exciting for people to come and see
concerts and all of the things that take
place at the kind of scale that takes
place in Las Vegas. What impressed me
about that in the very beginning was I
said nobody's ever going to make another
one of those. No matter how much anyone
tries, Las Vegas
is on its own. It's not necessarily for
everybody, but no one is going to
recreate the the infrastructure that
exists in that particular place. That's
unique and of I think enduring value.
And I'm fascinated by it because I just
think it is again an example of a place
where you can make something up today
and it comes out tomorrow. Meaning
there's nothing that stands in your way.
We just created a beach club with Cairo
at one of our properties that is just
it's just original and anything you can
think of. There's nothing to stand in
your way of making it up there. When did
you get involved with MGM? It was during
latter stage co now MGM was out of
business just like for a long time
Expedia was out of business. I mean
nobody could travel. Nobody could go.
Nobody with the entire city was shut
down. But I looked at it and I thought
just like I thought about travel. If
there's life, there's travel. Well, if
there's life and there's going to be
life, there's going to be Las Vegas. And
so MGM, its value had decreased
enormously. So we were able to purchase
a large percentage of it inexpensively
at the time because we believed that
once you reopened
it would be fine and uh we picked I
think the best entity to do it. all the
entities suffered the same situation.
But that's what intrigued me and and its
infrastructure, the fact that it had 480
restaurants in one place, uh 125
performance venues,
9 million, I think it's 9 million feet
of convention. I mean, it just was so
once we learned about it, it was so vast
and deep. said, "How do you, you know,
how do you not do this?" That's one of
the things that motivated us.
>> Were you thinking about that through a
lens of AI at the time?
Well, to a to a degree for sure, the
internet world I think that everybody
participated in up until still true to
some degree today was so dominated by
Google. Uh Google absolute monopoly on
search and all your traffic, I mean at
least half your traffic if you were
healthy would come from people coming
directly to you. But the other half
without which you wouldn't be able to
survive came from Google and Google over
the years was consistently as it
monopoly grew was squeezing the people
who kind of lived on as a surf on its uh
land.
>> Yeah. And uh so I was always
I mean we were fighting that good fight
for 20 plus years and succeeding and
building some considerable assets.
But when I found an asset that couldn't
be disintermediated by search
I thought wow that wasn't AI that was
just the characteristics of the internet
environment. I want to come back to the
fact that you said sort of you were
direct and blunt as two of your your
sort of things that define you in a way
and most people shy away from
confrontation and you love it. Can you
tell me more about that?
>> I'm not really very good on my very own
staring at a wall or at a screen or at
something. I need the convulsive arguing
of ideas of people who have passion and
that's often got a lot of voices and a
lot of voices saying okay it's okay but
a lot of voices saying that's stupid or
whatever opinion trying to listen for
what rings your instinct is a process
that I think is best conducted in
extreme At
least for me and those that like being
around me and doing it and some do. I
love confrontation because in
confrontation out comes stuff that if
you're listening,
no matter how noisy that confrontation
gets, if your ear is open, you're
listening and you'll hear something. and
the thing you hear will be a better
truth, at least for me, than in any
other process. So, I do love it and I've
always prized it and if I'm not in an
environment where it's happening, I
think it's kind of dull outside, inside
or wherever.
>> Why do you think people aren't always
direct? Like, where does that come from?
Where does your directness come from?
Was that a learned thing or were you
always direct?
>> No, I always was. I don't know, Lon. My
interior thinking like many things with
me is I think it's a biological. I I
can't I can't do it any other way. It's
not like I made a choice. It's like I
said, "Oh, let's do that cuz it's better
than not doing that." So then in endless
situations where I see people run from
confrontation
and I of course can't do anything. Of
course you I tolerate it. But I tend to
kind of run from it. It just makes me
uncomfortable. Uh, and I understand
better those that are
incapable of it or worried about it than
I do me that's very capable of it. I
mean, I certainly understand why you
would be uh it it it's combative. It is
irritating. It is often frustrating. It
is a lot of things. I value those
things. Other people hate it. You have a
passage in your book that I I loved.
It's great selft talk and I'm going to
read it because I want to quote it. You
said like almost everything in my life
iteration one dumb step in front of the
other course correcting as you go is the
only process I'm any good at.
>> And this process became your mantra. Can
you unpack this for me a bit?
>> I learn from bouncing off the walls
uh of a bad direction or a mistake or
whatever. and course correcting and make
plus mistakes. Look, there are some
people for sure, relatively few, but
there are certainly people who don't
need to bother with that because they
are brilliant in ways I'm not. Uh, and
they are able to seemingly not have any
process. those that's that's where
genius lies for those people that are
fantastic. My observation is they have
other problems but for those of us who
are not particularly in something that
hasn't happened before now you know
things that are very known uh you can
find guideposts but in the world that I
am involved in uh which and the world
that I'm most happy to be involved in is
where something isn't known and you are
making progress as you go building a
company step by adapt an idea from a
whatever wherever it comes from to
whatever it's going to be that the only
way to proceed
is in that world of unknown of building
something is I can do it only by
bouncing off the wall going a step
forward pushing back being pushed back a
half a step and eventually
making less mistakes and busting
through. I think what keeps people from
doing that is they don't want to look
like an idiot. So, it prevents them from
starting in the first place. They don't
want to look like an amateur. They're
scared. But what's your reaction to
that?
>> It was a long time ago. I don't know who
said it or whatever, but it rang for me.
Very true. Somebody said something and
someone else said, "Well, that's
stupid." And the person said, "That's
what I want, stupid. The more I hear
stupid, the more I will hear ideas. And
so if you're in a process with other
people and any idea,
any idea, dumb, stupid, wrong,
uh any one of those words you want to
attach to it is a step to the next idea,
which isn't. You got to get stupid
before you get smart. You never feared
failure because you had one primary fear
most of your life which made it easier
for you to eliminate other fears. Yet
one of the things that stood out in the
book was you had this contradiction. You
struggled with this decision to leave
Fox and start your own thing.
Can you explore the tension there
between what was the fear going into
that?
>> I'd been working in companies since I
was 19. That was 30 years later. I was
49.
I'd been a very good corporatist. I had
run two movie companies and incredibly
successful in the world that I was in.
And yet I yearned for something that was
my own. And it wasn't mine. I mean, uh,
I worked for large enterprises. And I
think any good employee believes and
acts like it's theirs.
But that's a delusion. It isn't theirs.
It's someone else's. And
that struck me and sat with me for
once I'd realized that I had this yearn
for independence.
Uh I was very comfortable. I I I was, as
I said, you couldn't be more successful
than I was at that time. We created the
fourth network.
Simpsons like you had
>> a very successful movie company etc etc
but it wasn't mine and I thought well
what am I going to do about that and I
came up with this thing in my brain and
I couldn't get out of my brain which was
either you are or you're not. It's
binary and you can do what most
executives do which is you rationalize
and you you know you live a pretty good
life. So you rationalize your situation
or you just say well this is what it is
and you don't have any yearn to be
independent or on your own. I did and I
knew that that was binary and it just
kept at me. I didn't wasn't that I was
afraid. It was I didn't want to confront
the very binariness of it because on the
other side of not being a corporatist or
being on your own or being independent
or wanting to build something yourself
is that you are very far away from the
mother church. You really are on your
own. And while it didn't frighten me, it
was like
such a different solar system that I
couldn't even conceive of it other than
in these terms of you are or you're
you're not. And I couldn't accept that I
was not. And that's that's what got me
out. It was my inability to accept that.
And so I left Fox and had no clue what I
was going to do. So up until that point
you had been on the receiving end of a
lot of these compensation agreements and
now you're setting them for your CEOs.
How do you think about that? Do you have
a different approach than others or how
do you think about incentives and
ownership?
>> I believe in risk and reward and I
believe if the risks if you take risks
and if you're doing any valuable work
you're going to be taking risks. If it
works out, the rewards should be there
and we now and always have hope always
will compensate people accordingly.
People can't gain wealth in the
enterprises that I'm involved in.
Something's wrong with the enterprise.
So, I'm about wanting people to give
people the opportunity to create real
wealth with unlimited upside for it. How
do you think about that? Can you walk me
through an example of sort of like how
you think about the principles of
compensation and alignment and base
salary and sort of incentives?
>> I think generally compensation that is
stockbased is not the best route. Uh it
depends again it's a broad general
statement for developed enterprises.
It's not the best route. uh the best
route is up to me a much simpler one. If
you create value working in a project
where you create value to whatever
degree you created, you should share in
that value on a cash basis. Meaning any
time period a year just take every year
if the enterprise does well you should
have a share of how well it does paid to
you at that moment. What I have learned
is that most people you think that
giving large populations options in the
company's securities
that they would hold on to them and what
you find out is
80 90%
the first moment that they quote vest
they cash them. So it I don't know I've
got a lot of endless thoughts about that
that bore the hell out of everyone. Well
they won't bore me. I'm really curious
about it actually because you know
stockbased compensation is um it
distorts a lot of the economics of the
business and people think that it
incentivizes or retains people when
you've had no problem.
>> I don't believe by the way I also I I've
heard retention arguments
from time immemorial
decades of well we do this to retain
people. I think that's ridiculous. to
retain people. People stay in your
enterprise
because they like what they do and
there's opportunity there. Uh a handcuff
so to speak or they stay because they
haven't vested in this or that. I think
that's hogwash.
I don't believe in retention. I believe
in opportunity.
>> I like the idea of sort of participating
in the success of the organization. How
do you think about it as a new CEO
coming in maybe to a mature business and
do you set the compensation based on
above baseline for next year or how do
you think about that?
>> You certainly if you have an ongoing
business
you're really compensating people for
growth. I mean other than base tasks
that need to be performed. You want
growth. If people can provide you with
growth you should give them a share of
that growth. If they want to be an
owner, they can take their cash
compensation and then go buy stock.
>> Yes, absolutely. Give them their
resources and let them go do it. But the
wealth you can create for them, it
should be based upon what they do and
what they produce.
>> Have you ever lost anybody ever because
you wouldn't give stock options?
>> No, I don't think so. See, people might
say yes, but I don't think so. One of my
friends had a clever idea because he
doesn't give stock options. So when he
was recruiting people, they were like,
"We're walking away from all these
options." And he's like, "I'll give you
the exact same options at the company
you're leaving, but I'm not going to
give you options in the company you're
coming to."
>> That's a good idea. I like that.
>> One of the the moments that really stuck
out in your book, you had this core
principle and you said that the clock
starts ticking the moment you're made
aware of the incident. From the second
from that second, you're responsible for
the actions. And I think you hit on that
in relation to two of your marketing
people who were who were stealing from
you. Can you tell me that story and sort
of what happened and what the
realization was? It was my first
exposure to something like that where
uh we found out that two of our key
executives had been stealing and uh
and and one of my colleagues said, you
know,
we can bury this. Another of my
colleagues said, "Well, actually, one of
the people who did this, they threatened
you very directly, kind of blackmail and
saying if you expose this or if you
report this to the authorities, we'll do
this terribly damaging thing, which was
so heinous to me." But what I realized
and it is a great lesson for me
presuming you run a straight
organization or meaning in other words
presuming you're not engaged in
nefarious stuff but if something happens
and it doesn't necessarily have to be
somebody stealing. Could be one of your
products has some antisocial thing that
you discover or somebody in your
organization has just done something
that is unethical. Whatever it is and so
long as you're running a general like
you have checks and balances up until
that moment that you know it, you have
no issue with culpability, you have no
agency, you have no nothing. But the
second you know it, the clock is ticking
and you have to have that in your brain.
You have to know that every second after
that, what you do about that
is now your absolute responsibility. I
have a like a word bubble above my head
about it, but it is a great discipline.
And I've seen so many situations where
that was not recognized where
proarication or other methods where
you're not aware that that clock ticks
and every action you take is then your
actions before that you got no fault. I
want to come to public broadcasting for
a second. One of the the things that I
don't see getting enough attention that
you wrote about was the fairness
doctrine. I'm wondering if you can
explain what that is and what the
impacts been in getting rid of it. Well,
the fairness doctrine was a fundamental
tenant of broadcasting
which meant that you had to in any
dissemination of anything you had to
present if there were two sides to an
argument you had to present them fairly.
You had to be fair in your presentation.
And this was along with a lot of other
regulation thrown out some time ago and
I think is uh very unfortunate for the
common wheel as they say. Meaning that
that proviso for broadcasters that and
the fact that they still are but they
were licensed because they were using
the public airways belong to the public.
And so you felt a responsibility if you
were in that world to do the right
thing. And we can define right in all
sorts of different ways, but we all know
what the mainstream of right is to a
very large degree. That's kind of been
tossed and I think it's just very
unfortunate.
>> How do you think about the media
landscape today in terms of information,
disinformation, and how it's all playing
out with people?
>> Oh my god. I mean it's we're in a very
difficult period about information about
facts. There is so much from our
leadership
that uh is not based on facts is not
true. It's promotional or it's just
outright
not factual.
And we hear this thing about quote fake
news
principally by people who are faking
news. Uh, not always, of course. And
listen, I hate the right as much as far
right as much as I hate the, you know,
the the woke left is as horrible as the
woke right or woke right is whatever.
Say it when any way you like. But we
have lost a central factbased
method for the dissemination of call it
news broadly speaking. And this is every
bird brain knows this. Most of the
talkers are talking essentially to
themselves and to their audience,
reinforcing
what they think, which is not
necessarily factual. Wherever you are in
the spectrum, the biggest issue we have
is
having faith and belief in information
and that's that's that's a sorry state
and there are some trusted sources
relatively few.
>> We always end these interviews with the
same question Barry which is what is
success for you?
Well, success for me uh is is remaining
curious. I the only thing that that the
only thing that
drives me is is my curiosity
and if I'm curious
then that is success.
I love that answer. Uh thank you very
much for the time today.
>> Nice to be with you.
>> Thanks for listening and learning with
us. Be sure to sign up for my free
weekly newsletter at fs.blog/newsletter.
The Farnum Street website is also where
you can get more info on our membership
program, which includes access to
episode transcripts, my repository, ad
free episodes, and more. Follow myself
and Farnum Street on X, Instagram, and
LinkedIn to stay in the loop. If you
like what we're doing here, leaving a
rating and review would mean the world.
And if you really like us, sharing with
a friend is the best way to grow this
community. Until next time.
[Music]